when it comes to making money people are
often accustomed to looking at what the
latest tech stock is maybe it's
artificial intelligence but if you see
something real old school it puts all
that to shame you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you
today I want to talk about copper they
call it Dr copper all right and in
today's video we are going to expand on
that expand on different forms of these
uh metal and how that's related to
energy electric vehicles this you know
the green movement all that stuff right
here and now and then I want to expand I
want to go into you know some other um
things related to energy and so on let's
begin by taking a look at this Jeff
Curry says copper is the best trade he's
seen in his career prices have got to go
higher the Commodities veteran says
should put a little cave out there that
usually when too many people come to the
table talking about one thing it's
probably on its way out at least
temporarily uh because you know that's
the way it works just the The Madness of
crowds the world is going to need a lot
more copper to power everything from
electric vehicles to updated grids and
data centers at the same time getting
new mines online is extremely slow
process one that's made all the more
difficult by political and environmental
concerns the mismatch between rapidly
growing demand and sluggish supply has
already helped push Co prices to more
than
$10,000 a ton in London trading this
week what's important to note here is
that this applies to many different
types of um Commodities it takes a long
time like e like I've said with the
nuclear and uranium if they were to
agree today okay let's build a nuclear
reactor they they haven't done that and
it takes a long long time to get through
that all that red tape all the the
politics if they agree today it would
take many many years to get that out
online and so there's this time
differential where we got to understand
there's demand and demand gets more
every year year right well what happens
here is that you have this um you know
price increases throughout that period
until the demand is met all right the
most compelling trade I've ever seen in
my 30 plus years doing this I can
actually show you um the chart here in
just a second um looking at it you could
see um you know they get into it the
links will be in the description if you
really wanted to uh get into all of it
but let me just show you look at the
potential military spend in the United
States $95 billion on Munitions we look
at what's going on in places like
Germany a100 billion of military spend
you've got all three going much stronger
than what we would have thought two to
three years ago that's the price gone
crazy and usually when we get these type
of patterns that's a bad sign actually
but I'm just bringing it to you not to
tell you hey this is what you should buy
I'm just showing you okay um you've got
the a lot of the different factors that
make up like reasons and compelling
reasons to get copper there's an
infinite amount and basically the price
was depressed for a long period of time
and that's usually the way it works all
right when things are un you know out of
out of fashion and so on you you tend to
see that becoming an excellent time for
an opportunity to get it okay you got
more energy more food and you've had
more labor which helped create the
disinflationary pressures that we saw
for the last several years I'm not going
to say it's the only cause but to put a
big headwind to the commodity story
they're talking about different reasons
for this I think that for a lot of
people it just you know we look at gold
we look at Silver but copper doesn't get
that much attention usually copper goes
along with the economic growth in
general so if there's you know the idea
that now we're not going to have a lot
of economic growth copper can be subdued
for a while if um you know you you see
the stories oh you know the economy is
growing no recession all that stuff well
copper can start to do well that's
important okay look at the price here of
the commodity spot index
and you'll see that it has ticked up
recently going back to levels basically
we haven't seen this since earlier in
2023 will it continue that's anybody's
best guess but the trend I mean just see
if you ignore that sort of that Spike
that occurred right in 2022 we are still
well above Trend and that just shows us
how much we're paying for stuff
everything is super expensive when we
look at commodity spot index that is
certainly one aspect that we need to
understand when we look at the
production this is 2023 production I
just wanted to break it down by country
as well giving you a look at who's
actually making this stuff all right
every time you see an earthquake in
Chile which does happen suddenly copper
starts to rise keep that in mind uh Peru
is there 2.6 million about half of what
Chile produces China is big on that and
my goodness Canada wow wow great stuff
uh that's yeah let's just move on but I
just want to show you this in terms of
production so you could see it for
yourself and I think it's really
important just to understand who I did
I've did a whole video about this by the
way a while ago but who produces what so
that when there are issues you already
know you could just snap your fingers I
know what's going to be affected as a
result of
that looking at this you could see the
thieves cutting cables from Tesla
charging stations in
Vallejo um they're stealing the material
inside they have thick cables which have
a lot of copper in them and so people
are stealing that nothing that you
haven't heard of before of course look
on this aspect where we need clearly we
need more energy that's what I'm I'm I'm
showing you this for Asia Embraces coal
as the US rejects it if you're remember
many years ago Obama said yeah you could
start a business in Coal but we're going
to bankrupt you okay they know that so
if you're going in with that I mean it
is pretty obvious to me that you know
you're fighting an uphill battle however
in Asia they're using a lot of that coal
they're saying we need to we need to get
going we need to grow you guys you know
when it was your turn to grow you were
using
coal uh now we're not allowed to use it
we're in our growth we're in our early
growth stages right for a lot of these
countries so they're saying hey that's
not fair we're just going to keep doing
it although China is I'll show you in a
second here they've got more solar
they've got more like more more more
more more um but you know it all depends
on the population and so on there's many
factors this is talking about nuclear's
Revival and one the only reason I'm
showing you this here is that there are
going to be these new technologies and
new ways to do things that will be much
better more more efficient than the old
way I think a lot of the nuclear
reactors the old school ones they're
leaking they are not efficient we got a
problem with nuclear waste afterwards
the new ones supposedly don't have these
issues or significantly less so
understand that when we're talking about
uranium these companies these countries
excuse me are signing on to it they're
going in that direction and so we got to
be aware of that so we got copper we've
got uh uranium as well that's another
one China is a critical Global supplier
full decoupling may be impossible cuz we
always talk about oh let's get away from
China China's all this we're going to
just going to we're just going to put
tariffs and that's it they're going to
go bye-bye I think it's important to
note that you can't get away from them
you just can't because all the jobs were
shipped offshore all the manufacturing
was done overseas oh but now we're going
to diversify our supply chain in many
cases don't look at for instance
semiconductors but look at all these
other cases I have you know other
articles Cambodia Cambodia builds 75
factories who owns those factories China
you look at this example again and again
and again China is opening up those
factories now why are they doing that
well first of all it's not the it's not
the country opening up the factories
it's a business owner saying H we Char
we have to pay let's just say it was
equivalent of like you know $7 an hour
to our workers in China
well what if I open up a factory in
Cambodia oh I could pay them half all
right let's open up a factory in
Cambodia so you you know that's what
they're doing and getting around the
tariffs at the same time so they're
going to have higher profit margins
probably okay so I think that's
important just to understand what's
actually happening here where the energy
is coming from where the energy is going
to because these countries are the ones
that are going to need a lot of that
energy uh and we'll see how that
develops over the next little while here
you could see solar for example we
always think of like China using a lot
of coal and so on certainly they do uh
they're not shy from that but you you
can see right here massively China has a
lot of solar energy using a lot of solar
energy all right and then just showing
us why Germany is choosing natural gas
over nuclear power so they're shutting
down their nuclear um and this is very
different than what we've seen in some
of other places all right um I find it
strange because of everything that
happened with Russia that they're doing
this but this is the way it goes right
we'll see what happens I I honestly
don't know how do you get any growth
with no energy uh but hey okay that's
what they're doing this is just showing
us top exports in Asian countries just
you know Food For Thought um you can
look at it coal coming from Mongolia for
instance we have Kazakhstan petroleum
products just looking at that where like
what do these countries produce who's
importing who's exporting a lot of these
countries are doing business with each
other they're doing business with each
other and not necessarily as much with
the us as it used to be there is a
decoupling in a sense but not in the way
we are told just like ah we're shipping
the J okay well we'll friend Shore that
that's right we're going to do friend
showing and bring the jobs to Mexico at
least it's within North America oh but
by the way in often cases not not in all
cases but there's many cases where the
Chinese are opening factories in Mexico
just like the Chinese have open
factories in the north part of Italy you
got to understand the way the world
works all right I'm I see
people they're so confused often times
about what's happening
uh but certainly this is something that
you know over time we're going to we're
going to figure out look what's
happening with energy you got the copper
trade you got the clean energy trade
whether you agree with it or not this is
now looking attractive for copper after
looking not so attractive the thing
about copper which I think is different
than uranium is that with uranium if
these countries are going to sign onto
your you know nuclear which they seem to
be doing so they are going to need it
they're going to be the buyers you know
you and I are not going to buy uranium
although you can buy physical physical
Sprout um uranium but we're not using
that in the case of copper we may build
a house we need some copper uh if
somebody's going to build a big
building they're going to need copper so
it's copper being used industrial metal
but when I look at like what's happening
with uranium that's a government
government spends as much money as they
want even when it's completely
irresponsible that's a different story
so keep that in mind you know look at
the different options that are out there
there's different companies there's uh
you know ETFs there's all kinds of
things that could be of interest to you
just do your homework don't just jump
into anything it's better to be in their
baby steps then to just go all out and
think you're going to be you know Rich
tomorrow don't do that you know do your
proper due diligence all right if you
want to know uh more information you got
to tune in each and every day I bring
out videos every day all I ask is that
you hit that Thumbs Up Button because
that supports me supports the channel
and I want to thank you for that and of
course as always if you're interested
I've got live classes every single
weekend on Friday I got it on on Sunday
as well if you're interested in learning
more about that there's a link at the
top of this description and as always
take care see you tomorrow